Release v5.7.0-rc1 (#6768)
zcash/zcash: doc/release-notes.md

pool, you can delete the parameter files stored in these directories to save
space as they are no longer read or used by `zcashd`. If you do wish to use the
Sprout pool, you will need the `sprout-groth16.params` file in the
aforementioned directory. This file is currently available for download
[here](https://download.z.cash/downloads/sprout-groth16.params).

Mempool metrics
---------------

`zcashd` now reports the following new metrics when `-prometheusport` is set:

- (gauge) `zcash.mempool.actions.unpaid { "bk" = ["< 0.2", "< 0.4", "< 0.6", "< 0.8", "< 1"] }`
- (gauge) `zcash.mempool.actions.paid`
- (gauge) `zcash.mempool.size.weighted { "bk" = ["< 1", "1", "> 1", "> 2", "> 3"] }`

The `zcash.mempool.actions` metrics count the number of [logical actions] across
the transactions in the mempool, while `zcash.mempool.size.weighted` is a
weight-bucketed version of the `zcash.mempool.size.bytes` metric.

The [ZIP 317 weight ratio][weight_ratio] of a transaction is used to bucket its
logical actions and byte size. A weight ratio of at least 1 means that the
transaction's fee is at least the ZIP 317 conventional fee, and all of its

> logical actions are considered "paid". A weight ratio lower than 1 corresponds
> to the fraction of the transaction's logical actions that are "unpaid", and
> subject to the unpaid action limit that miners configure for their blocks with
> `-blockunpaidactionlimit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logical actions are considered "paid". A weight ratio lower than 1 corresponds
to the fraction of the transaction's logical actions that are "paid". The
remaining fraction (i.e. 1 - weight ratio) are subject to the unpaid action
limit that miners configure for their blocks with `-blockunpaidactionlimit`.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/zcash/zcash/pull/6769
